---
layout: page
title: "TU250x Kickstart"
date: 2014-07-27 14:39
comments: false
categoy: projects
tags:
  - motorcycle
  - tu250x

---

## About the TU250x

The Suzuki TU250x is a 249cc EFI UJM, produced in Japan and imported
for sale in the United States from 2009 to 2015. The bi-yearly updates
of the US version have thus far been limited to trimline changes.

Outside of the US, the bike has a wider audience and has been
available longer; originally as a carburated, 4-valve format with more
varients and options. The closest direct kin to the modern TU250x in
the Japanese market is the ST250.

The ST250 is available in a standard model and an "E-Type" model. The
standard model is what is rebranded as the TU250x in the American
market. The E-Type is the fancier version, with a two-tone trimline, a
kickstarter, and a decompression lever on the cylinder head cover.


## What's Missing for the Kickstart

The omission of the kickstart feature on the TU250x is accomplished
partly by the expedient of simply not including the parts, and by
plugging up the hole in the clutch cover. However, there is one
important piece which is altered rather than left out: the drive
shaft.

On the ST250 E-Type, the drive shaft has an elongated tail which
projects out of the crank case. It is onto this nub that the idler
gear would be set. The TU250x/ST250 shaft is too short.

[{% img right https://lh5.googleusercontent.com/-aQUgBJFKUYo/U-ED4ZS6eFI/AAAAAAAAQJQ/JbZq09IWNFg/s400/DSC00104.JPG 300 400 "Original TU250x drive shaft (top), ST250 E-Type (middle), 1982 SP250 (bottom)" %}](https://picasaweb.google.com/lh/photo/q2aAk1HCEVCOYQI9xLCnXI90Bmq-8q5KVhdpQ6O0Fv4?feat=embedwebsite)
For reference here is the original TU250x drive shaft (top), the ST250
E-Type (middle), and the 1982 SP250 (bottom). Note that the older
SP250 shaft does include the longer tail end to support the idler
gear, but that the sprocket end is shorter (possibly due to the
SP250's narrower frame).

## Kickstart Parts

In order to add a kickstart to the base ST250 or the TU250x, one must
aquire:

- kickstart assembly
- idler gear
- oil seal
- kickstart lever
- elongated driveshaft

The internal pieces of the actual kickstart assembly are identical to
those from an older incarnation of the ST250's engine, the 1982
SP250. These assemblies can frequently be [found on eBay][ks-ebay] for
under $50 USD, although the completeness of parts can be hit or miss.

[ks-ebay]: http://search.ebay.com/SP250+kick+start__W0QQsacat6028

The idler gear (and its washer and circlip) can sometimes be had on
eBay as well (sometimes as part of the auction for the kickstart
assembly mentioned above). This gear is considered to be part of the
transmission in any of the Suzuki part list breakdowns.

The elongated driveshaft which is necessary for mounting the idler
gear does not appear in any prior US models. The part number for the
correct elongated driveshaft is `24130-38310`.

You will need to find a new oil seal and the correct kickstart
lever. The oil seal is available in the US, but the lever is not. The
part number for the correct kickstart lever is `26300-28D00`.

Note that the 1983 SP250's lever sweeps in a different arc than the
ST250's, which will very likely be an issue as the folded lever fits
close to the motorcycle's frame. It would most probably would strike
the frame or pegs, but I have not physically verified this.

I had a good experience in obtaining the Japan-only parts from
[Samurider.com], and I highly recommend going to them first. Simply
give them the part numbers referenced above and they will email you
with a quote.


## What's Missing for the Decomp

The decompression lever is part of the cylinder head assembly,
specifically on the cylinder head cover. Apart from the small shaft
and return spring of the decomp itself, there is a small hole that
would be bored through the cover. On the non-E-type models, this hole
is not present, though it is obvious where it would be bored out on
the mold.

In order to add a decompression lever, one must acquire:

- decompression assembly
- supporting cylinder head cover (normally only sold as a unit with
  the cylinder head)


## Prerequisites

Before you even consider this modification, make sure you have the
time, space, and tools to bring it to completion. I was able to keep
the engine work constrained to a 3' x 5' table, with tools on a nearby
bench. Any smaller workspace may prove problematic.

You will require a copy of the TU250x Service Manual, which has
step-by-step disassembly and re-assembly instructions, as well as the
correct torque values for all bolts and screws.


### Required Tools

Rear stand
: rear wheel removal, and keeping the bike steady

Pneumatic jack
: for engine removal, etc

Torque wrench
: adjustable to at least 100 N/m for this project

Breaker bar
: A lot of tough bolts, you'll need the leverage

Impact driver
: for the four shift mechanism screws, which have threadlock holding
them in place.

Case splitter
: this will pull the case halves apart by bolting into the right side
of the case and then applying a lot of pressure onto the crank shaft.

Clutch holder
: holds the clutch assembly in place while assembling portions of it

Metric sockets
: 8mm, 9mm, 10mm, 12mm, 14mm, 17mm, 19mm, 24mm, 30mm

Alan drivers
: You'll want actual socket drivers in order to get enough leverage to
remove the cam sprocket bolts, which have threadlock.

Circlip Pliers
: The transmission, kickstart assembly, and oil pump all use circlips
 to retain their gears.


### Optional Tools

Slide hammer/bearing puller
: I personally found one bearing that needed to be replaced. Removing
  a bearing without a slide hammer and blind bearing puller approaches
  impossible. You may not need this, if all your bearings spin freely.

Rotor holder
: This is a specialty Suzuki tool specific for this task, but it's
  possible to get around using it as the rotor bolt has significantly
  more torque on it than many of the other bolts you'll be dealing
  with

Brass brush
: For cleaning mating surfaces and removing gasket bits. Brass is soft
  enough to not mar the aluminium of the engine. Do not use steel.

Platic razor/scraper
: For cutting away the side cover gaskets that inevitably adhere
  themselves to the covers. Do not use regular razor blades, you run a
  high risk of damaging mating surfaces and causing an oil leak.

Leather work gloves
: The machined surfaces of the case are often sharp, and while you are
  trying to pull the case halves apart it is easy to slice yourself.

Neoprene gloves
: Makes cleaning up for the night a lot easier. Especially useful if
  you'll be doing the work in short spurts.


### Required Consumables

Assembly lube
: Any part that touches metal needs assembly lube. This stuff adheres
  like a gel, but will dissolve in the engine oil once everything is
  back together again. Lube liberally.

Liquid gasket 1512
: The case halves are machined to have a very tight mating
  surface. Liquid gasket is applied in a very thin bead along the
  specified surfaces (see your Service Guide) immediately prior to
  joining the case back together.

Lithium grease
: Oil seals and frame bearings will want clean grease

Gasket set
: You'll need to replace the gaskets for the clutch cover, generator
  cover, cylinder, and cylinder head during the tear-down and rebuild
  process.


### Optional Consumables

WD-40
: For cleaning components prior to re-lubbing them

Gasket remover
: Wasting time on tough gasket remnants sucks, just
  spray this on them and peel them off like a potato skin with the
  platic razor

Gallon baggies
: Put every assembly and various groups of screws in their own bags

Shop towels
: There will be a lot of oil, grease, and general chemical gunk,
  you're going to want something stronger than the paper towels in
  your kitchen. Get the blue disposable shop towels.

Oven cleaner
: I found that my cylinder head was encrusted with carbon deposits, as
  was my piston head. Oven cleaner, a brass brush, and a lot of elbow
  grease will help to remove it.


## Remove the engine

Remove the front sprocket. Remove the muffler. Remove the oxygen
sensor. Remove the exhaust pipe. Remove the starter motor. Remove the
side covers, seats, and gas tank. Remove the PAIR valve. Disconnect
the throttle body from the cylinder head.

Unplug the generator, neutral detector, and temperature
sensor. Disentangle those generator and neutral lines from the frame;
they will be coming out with the engine.

Drain the engine oil. Remove the oil pan and the shift detente. This
gives you a nice flat bottom of the engine to deal with, free from
bolts.

Set the bike up on the rear stand. Note, I do this after all the
easily accessible bits prior, especially the muffler -- my rearstand
bumps into it, unnecessarily complicating things.

Remove the rear wheel. Set aside the rear axle bolt.

Set the pneumatic jack beneath the engine (use a flat of wood to
protect the engine) and raise it to be firmly against the bottom,
without accidentally knocking your bike off the rearstand.

Remove the five top and front mounting bolts, and the small bolt
hiding underneath the swingarm frame bolt.

Remove the nut from the swingarm bolt, and use the rear axle bolt
(which is conveniently the same size) to begin pushing the swingarm
bolt out. This part is tricky, you want to get to the point where both
bolts are holding one side of the swingarm to the frame, but where
neither are holding the engine.

Slowly, and very carefully, move the engine forward out of the frame
and downward. This will take a lot of finesse and fidgeting, do not
rush it and try not to lose your temper or your grip on the
precariously balanced engine. More than any other aspect, this
activity benefits from an assistant.

If all goes well, you can now lug around the 70 lbs of filthy and
unweidly engine to your workspace.


## Disassemble According to Service Manual

There are a number of steps in the service manual that are geared more
towards a full teardown. Since we are only interested in getting into
the crank case, you can skip the removal of the generator rotor,
removal of the pison, and removal of the crank shaft. You can also
skip a full teardown of the cylinder head cover or removal of the
valves.

Everything on the clutch-cover side of the engine must be removed,
since that's the side of the crank case that you'll be sliding off and
attaching the kickstart assembly to. Take special care with the
mechanism of the gear shift assembly. Once freed of the gear selector
drum, the spring-loaded pawls will eject themselves. Be prepared to
grab and baggie them for later. Double check that you have both pawls,
both pins, and both springs in the set.

When separating the case halves with the case splitting tool, remember
that the case needs to come off straight or not at all. In my
particular situation, the counter-balance shaft was very tight in its
bearing, and came up with the case rather than falling out. This meant
that the counter-balance weight itself had to be maneuvered around the
crank. Be very patient.


## Replace driveshaft

Using your circlip pliers, disassemble the driveshaft portion of the
transmission. Lube up the longer ST250 driveshaft, and assemble the
gears onto it.

If you find that some of the shafts are very tight, I recommend
bagging the assembly in question and sticking it in the freezer for a
few hours. This will cause a minute amount of metal shringkage, which
is just enough to make the shafts not bind when you attempt
re-assembly.
