---
title: Python, Sphinx, and GitHUB
date: 2014-02-09
updated: 2014-02-12
category: programming
tags:
  - python
  - epydoc
  - pdoc
  - sphinx
  - github

---

This fine Sunday was spent in a [coffee shop], trying to determine how
I wanted to generate the API documentation for [brine].

<!-- more -->

Of course there is no doc utility provided as part of Python proper.
There's `pydoc` for the command-line, but nothing that will extract
static html for easy reference online, etc. Other tools have spun into
being to fill this void -- and each project must pick their favorite
when it comes time to ship docs.

[coffee shop]: http://morningtimes-raleigh.com/ "The Morning Times"

[brine]: http://github.com/obriencj/python-brine


## Enter the contenders

I began with [epydoc]. It was easy enough to setup, but I ran afoul
with some odd behavior almost immediately -- it insisted on
documenting the `abc.ABCMeta` class as though it were a part of my
project. I wasted almost an hour trying to make the `--external-api`
options work to link to the `abc` module in its proper place, but to
no avail. On top of this, I noticed annoyingly that the
[option to disable timestamps][timestamps] in the generated pages
never made it into a release, though it was committed in 2008!

[epydoc]: http://epydoc.sourceforge.net/

[timestamps]: http://sourceforge.net/p/epydoc/feature-requests/77/

Next up was [pdoc]. pdoc is gloriously simple, designed to be a
zero-configuration utility. In this it exceeds; it's basically a
static HTML version of the `pydoc` output. My issue was that I didn't
see a way to embed more documentation (examples, explanations, etc) in
the output without putting it into the docstring of the main module.
Indeed the pdoc project page is itself generated by pdoc, with its
lengthy expository body embedded entirely in one enormous docstring
[^1].  I also couldn't get it to filter out the `_cellwork` utility
module while still loading the barrel module. Frustratingly it was
either all submodules or no submodules.

[pdoc]: http://pdoc.burntsushi.net/pdoc

[^1]: I believe this is working as designed from the pdoc philosophy, and I can get behind that to some extent. But I think there are limits to just how much text you can sensibly cram into a docstring.

Finally I took a look at [Sphinx]. pdoc and Sphinx are in essence
polar opposites. Pdoc will generate the API page for a module, and do
nothing else. Sphinx will do just about anything at all as part of the
documentation generation -- API page creation is just one of its many
extensions. Above all, Sphinx is a [reST] (reStructuredText)
processor.  As a massive convenience Sphinx offers a `sphinx-apidoc`
[quickstart] that will generate the base setup for building API
pages. It took only a little while before I had nice looking docs
being created. A bit more hacking and I'd added targets to convert my
existing `README.md` into an `overview.rst` for inclusion into my
blossoming doc tree.

[sphinx]: http://sphinx-doc.org/

[rest]: http://docutils.sourceforge.net/rst.html

[quickstart]: http://sphinx-doc.org/invocation.html#invocation-apidoc

In the end I [settled on sphinx][mydocs]. Out of the three tools I
tried, it was the only one that got me to where I wanted to go.  After
just a bit of quality coffee time I had the expository prose and the
correct subset of modules presented nicely.

[mydocs]: http://obriencj.preoccupied.net/python-brine/


## Hosting the docs

[GitHub Pages][github.io] (ne√© github.io) offers gratis per-project
hosting.  Simply [create] a `gh-pages` branch in your project's
repository; anything pushed on that branch will show up at your
[project's URL][mydocs]. This blog is hosted on GitHub Pages, so it
seems sensible to host the docs for my projects here as well.

[github.io]: http://github.io/ "GitHub Pages"

[create]: https://help.github.com/articles/creating-project-pages-manually


## Easy mode

The previously mentioned `sphinx-apidoc` [quickstart] provided me with
a Makefile.  I hacked together a `deploy` target for it that operates
very similarly [to the one in Octopress][rake deploy]. To whit, it
generates the documentation in the format of my choosing (`dirhmtl` in
this case) and then pushes it into the `gh-pages` branch of my
repository. From there it's served up for the world to see. You can
see my revisions [here][makefile].

[rake deploy]: http://octopress.org/docs/deploying/github/

[makefile]: https://github.com/obriencj/python-brine/blob/master/docs/Makefile
