---
title: Year One of Cycling
date: 2023-11-07
category: personal
tags:
  - bicycle
  - cycling
  - relationship

status: published

---

<!-- summary -->

Late last year I was introduced to a pasttime which may be the most
significant change in my lifestyle to date. I began cycling.

<!-- more -->

It was an almost offhand, even accidental introduction to the sport.
My romantic partner at the time mentioned that she was interested in
getting into riding bikes as a means of exercise and recreation. It
was early in our time together, so I was still high on new
relationship energy. That feeling has an effect very similar to the
mania that manifests in me on its own sometimes, leading me to more
easily jump into new activities and excitements. And so I was swept up
in it along with her.

At first she was riding an inexpensive bike that she'd bought from
Walmart. I think it had been on sale, I'm not sure anymore. It was
heavy, clunky, had big knobly tires, and twist-shift hand-grips. I had
nothing at all at that point. I spent some time trying to best
identify what bike would work for how we wanted to ride. After listing
out the features that I thought mattered most, I settled on a
[Diamondback Division 1][div1].

[div1]: https://roadbikedatabase.com/bikes/2022/diamondback/division/2022-diamondback-division-1/

I remember the first test-rides around my cul-de-sac. I kept trying to
counter-steer as if it were a motorcycle. It was a struggle, to be
sure. I don't think I made it even a mile the first time. My legs were
shaky, but I was soaring.

For the next few days I'd almost obsessively push the boundaries of my
weak limits by riding further out and back again. Two miles. Five
miles! It seemed like such an accomplishment; I was gasping and my
legs barely worked.

We began to meet to ride together. We were in such terrible shape, but
about evenly matched. She had stronger legs and cardio, but a terrible
bike. I had weaker legs and heart, but significantly lower rolling
resistance and weight to fight against. We'd do our five or eight
miles as the sun was setting in autumn, then retire to our homes. It
was a good time, I think for both of us.

I normally hate to exercise, but riding a bike feels great, and the
incremental increases in stamina were just noticable enough that I could
stay motivated. Our rides together were more like bar-room chats. We'd
ride side-by-side and talk almost the entire time.

She bought a different bike, a [Kona Dew]. I lost my mechanical
advantage instantly, and she'd fly up every hill ahead of me while I
panted along behind. It was fine though, because I was learning to
focus on breathing and keeping the pedals spinning. Just zoning
out for a short while, and making my body do what it struggled to
do. Then we'd top the hill and resume our conversation.

[Kona Dew]: https://www.konaworld.com/products/dew

I am somewhat resilient to injuries of pride -- I have a defensive
mechanism that works well for me. I simply accept that I am not the
best, and that I can continue to grow. So I'd laugh it off as she flew
up the climbs time and time again. Our rides moved to greenways and
gravel trails, growing ever longer. Ten miles while she had a sinus
infection. Twenty miles in the cold. We congratulated ourselves on how
far we'd come. Sure we weren't fast, but twenty miles on gravel and
sand!

I started to look at upgrading to a different bike, and test-rode a
[Kona Rove]. I told myself it could be a birthday present six months
out, but it wasn't even a single month later that I bought it. I
vastly prefered the drop-bars over the flats, and the steel frame was
certainly heavier but it soaked up a lot of vibration that the
aluminium bike would happily transmit directly to my wrists.

[Kona Rove]: https://www.konaworld.com/products/rove

I wanted to push our distance further and further. So I proposed a
ride one day which was one of the worst mistakes I've made to date. It
was a long path, fifty miles in total. We'd be pressed for time, as it
was still winter and the days were short, but we were confident. At
the start we flew down the gravel paths, giddy that this would be a
triumph.

There's something important I need to note here. I still considered
her, at that time, to be the better cyclist. To be stronger than
me. There's a certain liberation in being the weak one on a ride,
because you just have to do your best to keep up. What never occured
to me, until long after this ride was over, was that I had started to
outpace her in some ways. I was unprepared for this.

We rode out, made it to the half-way point. But I was getting anxious,
it had taken us longer than planned. We joked about making the worst
plans. If we lingered too long, the park where we had left the car
would close at sunest, locking us in. We needed to get back, and we
needed to push ourselves. This is where things started to really fall
apart.

I am no paragon of riding, but my focus had always been on just
muddling through, in keeping a consistent pace, trying to go even when
my body said there wasn't any gas left in the tank. Her focus was, as
best I can tell, on how strong her legs were. On how hard she could
push on a hill, so much more than I could. It was on the ride back
that this difference in focus really made itself clear. The sky kept
getting dimmer, the distance felt forever away, and we were constantly
having to move. No time to pause for a break, just focus on your
breathing and lets get through this thing.

She started to fall behind. At first it was minor and I'd slow down or
joke with her about me winning on the downhills. She got quiet. I'll
probably never know what was really going through her head at the
time. It's hard to remember anything other than my anxiety, and
focusing on just keeping the pedals moving. Long hill climbs, and I'd
look up to discover all of a sudden that she was fifty feet behind
me. She wouldn't call out for me to slow down. The first time I
stopped for her. The second time I slowed to let her catch up. The
third time I was starting to get very frustrated. We needed to get
this done, what was she doing? Use the downhills to get the speed to
conquer the next uphill, keep pedaling!

Looking back it all makes sense, she was probably just out of gas. But
my expectation was that she was the stronger rider, why would she be
behind me, this was ridiculous. We needed to keep moving!

A year later when our relationship ended, she mentioned that night.
She said I kept leaving her behind. I don't think she realized that I
had so deeply believed that she was just... better than me at this.
The events of that ride sat on her spirit, coloring her view
of everything for the next year.

I still don't understand why she didn't ever call out. Maybe she was
proud? Maybe she thought it was obvious that she was falling behind
and I was supposed to just accommodate without a word? But I was
spending all my effort just huffing and puffing, left foot right foot
left foot right foot. I trusted that she'd be more capable than I
was. That's unfair though, it's not like I ever asked her if I should
believe that. I just started to believe it and acted like it was real.

We eventually made it back to the car. Jokingly I called it a
successful failure. I didn't realize how badly it had impacted her,
emotionally.

We'd continue riding together for the next year, but not that route
again. We'd do loops around the city, or out-and-back on long river
trails. She started to say she hated certain trails, that they filled
her with a dreadful boredom. That was fine, we started riding the ones
she liked more. At some point she shifted through a few different
bikes, settling eventually on one from [State]. I stuck with the Rove.

[State]: https://www.statebicycle.com/collections/4130-all-road/products/4130-all-road-flat-bar-matte-olive-650b-700c

We both grew stronger, and the differences in our goals became more
apparent. I'd warn her that a segment on strava was coming up, and I'd
let out what I thought was an encouraging cheer and take off on some
climb or another. I'd get through it panting and gasping, sometimes
with a new (terrible) personal record, sometimes not... and she'd come
pedaling up the hill at her own pace. She didn't want to compete, she
said. That's fine, the segments aren't the whole ride. I could just
push for the parts that interested me, and then we could connect again
right after.

It was the long gravel rides where it started getting really bad. A
miles long gradual uphill with dirt and sand, and I'd have my head
down just in a trance trying to keep going at a reasonable pace. I'd
think to look to my side, and she'd be nowhere around. I'd slow to
a crawl and say "hey!" when she caught up.

Every now and then some fire would light in her and she'd haul ass up
a hill. I'd always yell out "yeah!" as encouragement, and she'd kick
the hill's ass. Those moments were infrequent.

I still never believed myself to be a stronger rider than her. I just
felt like she didn't care anymore, or that she was intentionally
falling behind whenever I'd zone out. She'd still never call out to
let me know.

Sometimes we'd go very slow, and none of this was a problem. She'd
tell me about work, or her family, or her history. It was like when we
first started out all over again, and pedaling was just as good as a
bar seat. Those times were more rare though.

I was nervous the first time I set off without her on a longer ride.
We'd had a fight I think. It was an intensely hot day, but I did a
long loop around the city, sweating bullets and feeling dizzy. I got
through it with the same method as always, just breathe and focus on
my feet moving. One two, left right. Everything ends, you just keep
moving and you get there.

Time passed, and We picked up a habit of riding one of her favorite
routes, and drinking at a bar mid-way. Those felt like good times, but
I wonder now how she actually felt. She would smile and I'd feel happy
just to be looking at her, but who knows what was behind that.

Eventually we split up. Not during a ride, or after a ride. It was
just clear we didn't like one another anymore, and I said so. She
didn't disagree.

It's been hard riding alone. I miss her being there. I miss the
feeling that there was this powerplant of a woman ready to just charge
up anything, even long past the point where she was doing that sort of
thing. I've kept at it though. I've set my own goals. I've ridden the
paths she didn't like. I've been pushing my legs and heart through
distance and speed.

It's been less than one year since I bought the Rove. I only have 2500
miles on it, but on separate occasions I've managed to [cross the
100km barrier][100km] and to [sustain an average speed of
15mph][15mph] over a 30 mile ride.

[100km]: https://www.strava.com/activities/10098752789
[15mph]: https://www.strava.com/activities/10160453330

She says her interests are more in mountain bikes now, in trail riding
and downhill. That kind of thing makes me nervous. She said she hates
the long and boring rides. I like having the time to be inside of my
head, dreaming. She hates that kind of thing, I think. I need to stop
talking to her.

I'm grateful to her, for introducing me to this way of spending my
time. To giving me this method of meditating in motion, and forcing my
body into a better form.

I intend to keep pushing myself. It's a slow process, and I'm a potato
of a person. Well, slowly becoming less of a potato I suppose. I see
her every now and then, but we just pass one another. I struggle to
keep the memories of why we split up in mind, it's always easier to
fall into missing the good things. The sound of her laugh, just there
to my right. The way she'd point out unique birds only her sharp eyes
could spot. The way she'd scream hysterically at squirrels as they
dashed into our paths. The shared language that we developed. It's
hard to have lost that, but that's how it goes.

I rode, alone, the route that defeated us as a couple. It was still
pretty challenging, but I did it. It wasn't the victory that I had
hoped it would be. Just another activity on strava.

Next year I'd like to get up the bravery to ride the
[GAP-C&O route][gapco], from Pittsburg to DC. I think my legs can
handle it, around 50 miles each day, mostly downhill. Fifty miles
isn't a big deal anymore. My struggle will be in having the guts to do
it alone.

[gapco]: https://www.bikabout.com/great-allegheny-passage-trail

We'll just have to see.

---

[![Two bicycles, riderless, aside a field of flowers][bikewife]{.image-process-photo}][bikewife]

[bikewife]: {static}/photos/bikewife-2023.jpg
