---
title: Great Allaegheny Passage, C&O Canal Trail
date: 2024-05-06
category: personal
tags:
    - bicycle
    - cycling

status: draft

---

<!-- summary -->

Early on this year I had decided to throw myself into a seven day ride
from Pittsburgh, PA to Washington, DC. 330 miles all on my lonesome,
just me and the bike and whatever I brought on it. As time passed and
the trip date drew ever closer I started to panic about my
preparedness levels. Here is the chronicle of those events.

<!-- more -->


# 2024-04-22, 4 Days Prior

Panic is setting in. I need to redo the wiring on the Rove. I need to
get the wheels checked to make sure my spokes and rims are in good
tune. I need to re-align my brake calipers a bit. I've made a list of
what I'm packing, but I haven't actually tried to make it fit in the
panniers yet.

I've got a week off of work, and initial planning had put most of the
tasks I needed done in this week or after the trip. Of course that
didn't last, and now work is slipping and landing right when I'll be
gone, which means I need to arrange for coverage.

I've been doing some long rides to get my body back up to spec, but
I'm still not back to my fitness levels from the end of 2023. February
really set me back.


## Later that Evening

I spent a bit of time working to re-route the wiring so it wasn't
relying on so much electrician tape. In so doing, I managed to split
the shift cable housing, which was quite brittle by the rear
derailleur. In a panic I tried to find a newer cable and housing, but
had nothing suitable in my spares bin.

Oak City should have some, I'll need to visit them tomorrow so I can
get my shifting reconnected tomorrow.


# 2024-04-23, 3 Days Prior

Was stressed all morning.  I had spent a little more time packing, but
I think I'm over doing it and trying to bring too much stuff.

Called Oak City when they opened, and of course they had what I
needed. Picked it up and had lunch downtown. It was a fight, but I
replaced the cabling, got the wiring patched in, and all seems well
again.


# 2024-04-24, 2 Days Prior

Got the pannier mount locations dialed in, and I added some tape as
padding to keep it from rattling around in an annoying manner. I put
my snacks bag back on the handlebars.

Printed out a copy of train tickets and itinerary. Created the daily
routes on Strava and sync'd them to my Garmin.


# 2024-04-25, 1 Day Prior

Frantically trying to get enough work done so people can cover for me
while I'm on PTO.

Everything is on chargers. Need to double check that I have the
relevant cables along with me.

I need to re-pack. I'm going to take a short ride around the local
loop here fully loaded to validate that everything is stable and feels
alright.

I'll need to leave the house by 8am tomorrow morning to make my train.


# 2024-04-26, Train Ride from Raleigh

Parked downtown, loaded bags on bike and pedaled the two blocks to the
station. Was on the platform as the train pulled up. Detached my bags,
handed my bike over to a really nice guy who loaded it up. There was
some delay as they needed to clean my room, so I ended up in the
dining car chatting with a fellow who was a frequent rider.

The train status page currently says I should be arriving in DC thirty
minutes early.


## Rocky Mount

Rolled into Rocky Mount at 10:20am. We're supposed to have left at
10:23am, but it's currently 10:36am. Anxiety climbing.

Train dpearted late, at 10:40am. Status page still thinks we'll be
early to DC. We're just creeping slowly along, likely waiting for a
freight train to get off of a shared segment.


## Petersburg

Rolled into Petersburg at 12:26pm. Rolled back out at 12:28pm, nice! I
wish all the stops were this rapid. Maybe we can get some time back
after all.


## Richmond

Rolled into Richmond at 1:00pm. Rolled back out at 1:10, which was
less late than it was supposed to be, so that's good!


## Alexandria

Rolled into Alexandria at 2:50pm. Next stop is mine, so I'm packing up
now so I can be ready to leap off the train and transfer over to the
next one.


## Washington, DC

What a nightmare. I heard the calls for "next stop" and everything
seemed like I'd have almost an hour of time to get on my next
train. Then we came to a stop, well short of the station. The
conductor announced something over the intercoms about "waiting on
commuter traffic." For thirty minutes we sat still! Then finally we
creaked our way forward, went underground, and arrived at the station.
It was 3:35! I grabbed my bike from the luggage car and hauled ass up
to the station. I waited in line at the ticket counter as minutes
passed and then finally got the check tag for my bike. I hauled ass to
platform D, track 15, alllll the way to the end for the baggage car
there, unloaded the bike, handed it up to the conductor, then ran
inside with my bags. I sat down at 3:56. The train rolled out on time,
4:05.

I'm safely on the way to Pittsburgh. I don't care if there are stops
along the way, or if we are delayed, just so long as we get there. The
current estimate is 11:50pm. The hotel is expecting me to check in
after midnight already. It's about a 1 mile ride, estimated at 10
minutes.


# 2024-04-27, Riding Day 1

Pittsburg, PA to Connellsville, PA

they day started off with a thin drizzle. It was slightly chilly, but
thankfully not cold. I took most of my breakfast and packed it to
bring along, eating just a ham croisant. Then I carried my bike out of
the hotel, and set off on the streets of Pittsburgh. I eventually
found my way around to the park and that began my Great Allegheny
Passage experience. It was paved at first, and went around underpasses
and by abandoned buildings. Crossed a few bridges and wove through
more vacancies. It wasn't until around 21 miles that the pavement fell
away and the gravel began.

It was good condition gravel! Someone had clearly been actively
maintaining this thing, and really cared.

The trail passed through small towns. In many cases right through the
front yards of one house and the back yards of another. The rail line
used to be here, carrying coal workers to their mine and back home
again.

The natural scenery wasn't anything particularly outstanding, it felt
like riding the Neuse River Trail, or the American Tobacco Trail. Just
much, much flatter.

I stopped for water refills a few times, and then at a hot dog stand
for a dog, some fries, and a watermelon sno cone. I saw a number of
other riders, some with more gear than I was carrying, some with
less. All ages out riding. I saw a number of volunteers as
well. Apparently the trail is entirely volunteer maintained, and they
really get into it. That's why the gravel was in such pristine
condition. I've genuinely been on pavement that wasn't as consistent
as this was.

Eventually I pulled into Connellsville, and through their downtown I
navigated to the Connellsville B&B. What a lovely place! The hostess
was very kind, showed my to my room (which was wonderful). It also had
a coin operated washing machine, so I immediately showered and put my
riding gear in. I got dinner at a sandwich shop two blocks down the
road and made it back just before the dryer had finished. I passed out
briefly, woke long enough to respond to a text message with an emoji,
and then fell asleep again around 7:30.

Breakfast the next morning was of course perfect. I filled my bottles
with ice and water, took a complimentary banana, and set off again.


# 2024-04-28, Riding Day 2

Connellsville, PA to Confluence, PA

While the GAP from Pittsburgh to Connellsville hadn't been
particularly scenic (to me, anyway), the ride from Connellsville to
Confluence was beautiful. Gorges and streams, rapids, coal veins. All
the while on perfectly maintained and extremely level gravel. I
stopped frequently to snap photos, and lingered on a very high bridge
looking over Ohiopyle to watch rafters bounce across the rapids far
below me.

I made it to Confluence, crossed the bridge to the peninsula where I
was staying. I was early enough to grab a shower and head to the
corner where a restaurant was open for its first weekend. I had lunch
there and then headed back to the Smith House where I was staying.

I went through my pack to review the things I'd brought along. So much
was geared towards the expectation of colder weather, which just
wasn't the case. I figured out two bags worth clothes and a jacket
that I could do without, easily 7lbs of clothes and a reasonable
amount of bulk. The post office is only a few blocks away, an easy
walk. In the morning I will have breakfast then take these and mail
them to myself. It'll be nice to have less to carry along with me.

I had dinner at the same restaurant. I will need the calories for
tomorrow, finishing my climb up the continental divide. Once I clear
that, a little over halfway through the day's ride, then it will be
downhill all the way back to DC.

Passed out just after 9pm, a little later than I should really have
stayed up.


# 2024-04-29, Riding Day 3

Confluence, PA to Cumberland, PA

Had coffee on the porch, watched the sun rise and melt away the
morning mist. Confluence is a very quiet town. Had breakfast at 8am
with a few others who were staying at the Inn.

Mailed 5lbs of extra clothes back to myself, made it back to my room,
brushed my teeth, checked the charges on various devices, packed up,
and set out.

The ride to the continental divide was slightly more of a slog. But
then I passed through that tunnel and all at once it was over. From
that point onwards my days would be downhill jaunts instead of slow
inclines.

I made it from Frostberg to Cumberland in fantastic time, just flying
down the gravel.

Checked in to the Fairview, wandered around a bit to find some food.
Started a load of laundry (the previous place hadn't had washing
machines for me to use).

I'm sitting now in the lobby waiting on the dryer. I'm anxious to get
my things sorted out and pass out.

Tomorrow morning I'd like to buy an inexpensive battery-powered light
for the bike. My dynamo is great, but only when I'm moving.


# 2024-04-30, Riding Day 4

Cumberland, PA to Little Orleans, MD

Hotels are weird. They present themselves as so fashionable and
comfortable, but then the room has a fan that sounds like a jet engine
spinning up, and there's flashing LEDs in the smoke detector that
light up the ceiling every few seconds all night long. There's a mini
fridge sure, but then it rattles and whines like it's about to explode
whenever the compressor is on.

At least the continental breakfasts are pretty safe and reliable.

I'm waiting for 9am, so I can buy that extra light. Then I'll pack up
and head on out.

The other places I stayed had ice and water available for me to fill
up my bottles with before I rolled out. This expensive place has
bottles of water that I can purchase.


# 2024-05-01, Riding Day 5

Little Orleans, MD to Williamsport, MD

Got my light, and also bought a soft flask with a water filter
attached. I've been told that most of the water along the way to DC is
from wells, so you need to filter it to make it potable. I'm loaded up
with icewater from the tap here.

Covered in sunscreen, everything's charged up, just need to shove
clothes into saddlebags.


# 2024-05-02, Riding Day 6

Williamsport, MD to Brunswick, MD


# 2024-05-03, Riding Day 7

Brunswick, MD to Washington, DC


# 2024-05-03, Capitol

Chilling out in DC for the day


# 2024-05-04, Homeward

Rode the train from DC back to Raleigh. Loaded the bike onto car and
drove back home.
