---
layout: post
title: "Gertie in the Spring Time"
tagline: warm days and two-stroke smoke
description:
keywords: gt250, suzuki, two-stroke, gertie, spring
date: 2016-04-20 12:55:00 -0400
updated:
published: false
comments: true
category: projects
tags: gt250, spring, gertie, suzuki, two-stroke

---

Leaves are again on the trees, and you'd better believe I've been
taking advantage of the warmth to haul ass on two wheels.

In December of last year I was struck by the sheer beauty of a sound,
the ring-ding-ping of two stroke motorbikes. Fully enamoured I went
hunting through craigslist and ebay and stumbled upon a listing in
Miami for a 1976 Suzuki GT250. After some dickering and a bit of
deal-making, I sent off a certified check and received a motorbike in
return. I have absolutely no regrets.

<!-- more -->

## 70s Two-Strokes

Back in the 70's, the UJM was king. That's just what motorcycles
looked like. Hell, even Harley-Davidson -- famous now for their
bad-boy cruiser look & feel, and their ability to stick branding on
every single square foot of everything conceivably related to riding
-- had a UJM back then. An awful lot of those bikes were also
two-stroke (the H-D included), due to the pure simplicity and power
inherent in the two-stroke design.

Suzuki's GT line-up ranged from a polite 125cc twin to a massive 750cc
triple. The twin 250cc was an excellent in-between displacement, it
could get you moving while still being a lightweight and relatively
efficient machine. The next step up was the 380cc triple, decidedly
heavier and more complex, though definitely a power-house. I may have
to keep my eye open for one in the future.

Weighing in at 300lbs fully fueled it could pump out a reported
34bhp. It boasted a six-speed transmission, and used Suzuki's unique
CCI oil delivery system, removing the need for premix and vastly
improving lubrication efficiency.

The down-side is that, being an older two stroke, it's not very
efficient. And not only does it consume a fair amount of gas on its
own, it has the bad habit of venting some amount of unburnt fuel
straight out with the exhaust. This in addition to being a total-loss
top-end lubrication setup -- all that two-stoke oil gets burned up and
out the exhaust it goes. So, fairly awful from an environmental
standpoint.

Two-stroke oil is different from the normal stuff you put in an
engine. It has a definite smell to it. A very good smell. It's almost
certainly terrible for you, but for some reason those fumes register
as "totally excellent" and rapidly get associated with roaring around
on your bike.

There's an interesting way to combat some of the gasoline
inefficiencies inherent in the valve-less two-stroke design. One such
fix is to install exhaust pipes with expansion chambers tuned to the
port timing and volume of the particular engine. Such exhaust systems
have a rebound effect -- they push back with a high pressure wave,
forcing the normally-wasted beginnings of the fresh air-fuel charge
back into the cylinder. This results in less waste obviously, but it
also means that there's more air/fuel at a higher pressure in the
cylinder, which equates to more power! More power means you can
operate at a higher gear at lower RPMs while maintaining
responsiveness, which is again an increase in efficiency. The downside
is that the exuasts are... odd looking. Big lumpy chambers midway
along the bike where before there would be only a smooth pipe. Also,
they tend to be louder than normal exhausts, producing a strong
popping sound.

Of course I've already ordered a pair of appropriately sized and
shaped pipes for my GT250. I'm not in this thing to only take half
measures!


## Uggo

So, with another bike in the stable, what does this mean for Uggo the
VT500FT? Well I have very happy news there. Uggo has been sold and is
acting as the daily ride for her new owner, my very own sister,
Littlebear!

I am so pleased that Uggo is getting so much regular riding time. I
felt terribly guilty that I got her running well and then only barely
took her out on the roads. Motorcycles exist to be ridden. They are
healthy when they get used, and when they sit unused they grow sick
and weak. Their purpose is to go forward, to advance, to accelerate!
Even the slowest bike yearns to throw its entire being into motion, to
have its rider bring it to the limits of its engine and roar through
space and time.

And now, roaring is just what Uggo gets to do, charging into the
future like the beast she is!


## Me

Over the winter I put on some flubber. Kinda gross, but I had floopy
bits around my waist that tried their best to escape. I could feel
them wobble when I walked, but the cold had me so desparate for
stimulation I was hungry constantly. Now it is spring! I have begun to
run again. I play in the sunlight and exercise and move! I'm not
hungry all of the damned time. Ever so slowly the lumpy bits are
receeding. Even more slowly I am gaining muscle mass and definition.

I feel pretty good!
