---
title: Addiction of Love
date: 2023-12-17
series: Heartbreak
status: hidden

---

I am dealing with the symptoms of withdrawal, as a mourner would. For
the last year or more I'd slowly succumbed to a terrible addiction.
Emotional, chemical, social, the drug was consumed eagerly and with
little concern for consequence.

The idea of love as a drug has been romanticized into the ground. This
is not what I am attempting to communicate here. I am regretful that I
allowed myself to be so consumed. I am resentful that the one I fell
for was not someone that would fall in the same way, or be similarly
succeptible to the painful impact of withdrawal.

I very much would like to learn from this. I would like to internalize
the truth: that if I am to fall for someone, I must ensure that they
are worthwhile and reliable. The very real and physical heart-ache,
the loss of sleep, the loss of appetite; the visions and burning,
feverish, intrusive thoughts; I must not allow these to happen
again. I must not fall for someone that will become absent and
cheerfully move on to her next mark.

I have had my share of relationships. Only two have brought me to this
low. The first was my (ex)wife, which was a fight and a nightmare that
lasted for years. It has been fifteen years since then, when I felt so
out of control of my own thoughts and emotions. I did not want to be
here again. Yet here and now, the second such episode has been
affected by the absense of [my bikewife].

[my bikewife]: {filename}/blog/2023-11-07-year-one-of-cycling.md

I postulate that love is an addictive thing. I mean this in the worst
possible way. It is like nicotine or alcohol. There is a pleasure
response which you will become dependant upon, and when the thing that
provides that feeling is gone, there will be physical and chemical
reactions that your body will suffer.

It snuck up on me this time around. She and I had dated before, and
the last two times we had split it was a relief. This time we split
and I felt neither comfort nor joy to be alone and safe in my house.
Instead a wave of hollowness began to grow inside of me. I gave it
time, trusting that it would pass. It did not. The more time I spent
without her, the more intrusive the thoughts became. I was thinking of
her when I heard music, when I saw colors, when I rode my bike, when I
ate food. I would wake up in the morning looking for her "good
morning" messages, ready to send my own. I would go to sleep at night
wishing for her "goodnight" to be the last thing I saw as I drifted
off. The ache grew deeper, stronger. The obsessive ideation more
frequent.

Love makes you dependent upon it to be happy. When the one you love is
not there any longer, there is a strarvation of those chemicals inside
of your brain. It begins to fantasize. It's seeking out what it knew
would provide those chemical responses again. Just like any other
addiction.

My thinking is disjointed, nonsensical. It's a strugle to order the
bits and pieces of how I feel into a coherent narrative or message.
But the urge to do so is overpowering. I need to be seen, I need
others to know I feel so terribly. Is it an imposition? Almost
certainly. Could I make it into a message that helps others avoid the
same fate? Perhaps. That should be my real goal. I should be seeking
and striving to teach others the truth; that being in love is a
massive risk. That they should guard their hearts until they are sure
that their partner is someone who will fight to remain. That they
themselves will fight to remain.

My brain is pickled, focus and creativity become elusive. Perhaps I
will just use this to stretch my legs a little bit.

I was happy for a while. That's the kind of thing that is easy to take
for granted, much to my chagrin. I now realize that it's in that state
of comfortable happiness that a person is most vulnerable. This is
where you will learn to look at their face and feel joy. This is where
you'll adapt an association of contentedment to the sound of their
voice. The mind builds relationships, mapping happiness to the feel of
their skin, wholeness to the scent of their hair. All the time you'll
feel it, but not realize just how much danger that puts you in. You
be blessed with these feelings, and that is all grand, but you're
building a chemical correlation. In the absense of their scent, can
you still feel whole? Without touching them, can you still feel happy?

If it goes on long enough, I hypothesize that no, you cannot. You will
struggle to rise to those heights on your own, once they are
gone. That's what the withdrawal is.

Anyone can have a relationship. Any relationship can end. But love
builds a horrible dependency, one which cannot be shrugged off. It is
not glamorous, romantic, nor uplifting; it is brutal, mean-spirited,
and hurtful. As much good as you felt with them, you will fail to feel
again in their absense. Your brain, the electro-chemical componentry
in your skull, will not produce the endorphins for you any longer. It
will be left waiting for their trigger, forever.

I can go out to breakfast, but it tastes of nothing without her there
to share in it. I can play pool, but there's no laughter at bad shots
made, only frustration. I can go on a bike ride, but there's no pace
that keeps me from expecting to hear her voice along-side me. It's
inescapable, the sense of loss.

Alcohol, nicotine -- hell, heroin or cocaine -- these are not glorious
or romantic. They are recognized as harmful and addictive. Imbibe with
great caution and awareness of their impacts, or even better not at
all. So too with falling in love. Do not let the stress leave your
body in their embrace. Do not look at their face when you are happy on
a sunny day. You're poisoning yourself. You will regret it. Because
they will be gone, and you won't know how to feel anymore without them
there.
