---
title: Loneliness Mind Block
date: 2023-12-27
series: Heartbreak
status: hidden

---

I'm trying to move on after the [affliction of heartbreak][love] but
it's a struggle I don't feel I'm making progress on.

[love]: {filename}addiction-of-love.md

Sitting today at the coffee shop. I've written so many words from
here, so much code. Held so many conversations. Today I cannot think
of anything. Each thought is interrupted to search through my memories
for her face. I wish to be very clear, these are invasive thoughts.
They come unbidden, to block any other ideas from passing. I can't sit
here without thinking of when she sat alongside me. When we colored
with crayons and joked and thought of the future together. She's so
far away now, and I cannot reach her, but all of my consciousness is
bent on trying.

This is ridiculous. I could be working on sibilant, I could be writing
on topics I'd planned to write about. But I'm deadlocked searching for
her, waiting to hear from her again.

I could take a trip. But I've done that recently, and I know that the
loneliness isn't dispelled by doing so. Instead it is amplified. I
need to be traveling with her, not traveling thinking of her. Right
now I could buy a ticket for a train ride to Pittsburg. I could book a
room at a hotel. I could tell myself that I'd spend the 30 hours of
time on the train in writing and programming. I know the truth
though. The reality is I'd be wishing she were there to see it with
me. I'd post pictures solely in the hopes of engaging her interest.
Then the trip would be over, and I'd look back forlorn that she
weren't part of the memory. I'd be no better for it, no more whole.

How did I fall so low? How did I fall in love and not realize it until
after I broke it?
